i can't even imagine raising or running
your
company and not only having to reimagine
your products and services in the
immediate short term and pivot
during this pandemic but also taking
care of your children full time which in
itself is a full-time job
[Music]
thank you so much for being on my show
how are you i'm doing well thank you for
having me
of course where are you calling from
right now i am currently based out of
toronto as soon as the pandemic happened
i came back home because
well we have free health care and
and um very relevant for now
some good leadership behind us so yeah
we're in good shape down here
wonderful but you actually have a long
history with toronto with the various
startups that you've worked with right
and so you you have you
have you been on the line between the
united states and toronto often
i would say um i was born and raised in
the middle east and i moved
to north america when i was just turning
17.
and i definitely have spent a large part
of my career in canada
and then this last company that i
started which is called
quail it's um a one-stop shop
marketplace for podcasters so if you're
an indie podcast or a company looking to
start a show or even outsource elements
of your show
we we work with companies and indie
podcasters to scale their
their their podcasts um and we also
right after this you're going to help me
learn how to scale my own podcast
problem
i was going to make a joke right at the
beginning being like oh you're recording
on a zoom i don't want to be too
critical here
but no it's great i love that you're in
university and i love that you're
starting a podcast you're definitely
ahead of the hype curve
but just due to the nature of this
business we are more us focused
so i would say most of the brands that
we're working with and we own a
conference out in l.a
oh wow so i would say that i have been
spending the majority of my time the
last couple of years based out of
different parts of the us whether it be
chicago or l.a where our event is
um but as soon as the pandemic happened
i was on the first flight home
and i'm staying right here until the
first stable future
i love it i love it okay definitely
definitely so what i was saying is that
you know i'd love for you to take me a
little bit about back to your journey
you were both named the the top 30
marketers by marketing magazine you've
shared stage
you share the stage with richard branson
and places like like the web summit and
other conferences as part of the
national speakers bureau
so talk to me a little bit about this
dynamic you're both in marketing vp
business development in various startups
one of them appeared on on the dragon's
den right the canada version of shark
tank
so so who are you if team and what
drives you to these different endeavors
yeah it's a great question i would say
first and foremost i'm definitely a
sales person
so when i when i moved to canada didn't
really have a dime to my name but i knew
that i wanted to
build like a life for myself here it was
one of the few countries in the world
that i thought
could provide you opportunities based on
merit and hard work regardless of
the color of your skin and your gender
and so i'm really glad that i made the
decision to move
um i worked corporate gigs well first i
had to put myself to university
so i did you know part-time odd jobs at
three jobs through school
and eventually graduated debt-free and
joined the corporate world
um and i've always been in sales and so
the corporate world taught me
you know a lot of the structured
processes behind sales but then
eventually
i moved into like the entrepreneurship
and startup space where i would help
companies scale
and you know i would say i'm definitely
good at marketing because i've worked
with tech marketing agencies to scale
their companies but i'm definitely not a
marketing expert i would call myself
100 a salesperson and that is why i
started my own company because
i wanted to you know work on my own
bottom line and pipeline rather than
somebody else's
right so that so now talk to me a little
bit about this this latest experience
with quill
what are you trying to do and how do you
how are you bringing those sales
insights into this new endeavor
so i was running an agency for a few
years where we used to do marketing for
a lot of corporate clients and my job
was primarily bringing in the revenue
and
i eventually saw a gap in the market
where i started seeing a lot of brands
were moving into the podcasting space
and so i decided to productize our
services i sold the agency
and launched quill which is the world's
first marketplace for podcasters
um we still have an agency umbrella to
the business because a lot of those
corporate companies came back and said
well it's great that you have a
marketplace and a product but what we
also need is a full service team around
us
so we have both we have the scalable
online technology platform
similar to fiber and upwork for
broadcasting and then we also have our
in-house service team where we do
like podcasts for big brands along with
our conference
um and so that's really the reason that
i impetus of why i decided to launch
um we've been working on this company
for almost a year now and we launched
right before the pandemic so that was an
interesting experience as well
uh come launching a company right
through the pandemic and then actually
scaling during the pandemic was a very
interesting experience
so talk to me a little bit about this
world of podcasting you know i've just
discovered this in the recent months
since covet started because i used to go
and meet a lot of these a lot of people
that i speak with i used to eat them for
coffee or for walks or go to their
offices
all of a sudden covet hits and i'm like
okay now i have to do zoom well you know
actually when i'm visiting them in the
office it's really weird to just bring a
video and station
and then share it but if we're on zoom
hitting record
it will we almost forget that we're
recording this right now we're actually
recording an episode right now
it feels much more of a just like a
genuine informal conversation
what is happening to podcasts and and
you know how do you see this trajectory
because it sounds like you're built you
build this company right
at a beautiful time period where you
know web all these web conferences are
taking off and this sharing of
information is happening in this medium
now
absolutely it is definitely the future
and we were really very well positioned
and well timed from a launch perspective
podcasting is definitely on an
exponential growth curve where brands
are realizing that a lot of their
marketing spend and tactics on things
like events are no longer applicable
and so they're looking for additional
tactics to spend their money on and
podcasting
is definitely you know now we're at a
million podcasts
um yeah 20 of them are active actually
200 to
300 000 of those were only added in the
last 60 days
so there's about 4 000 new shows getting
popping up every day
so the the growth curve is huge and we
have definitely seen that as soon as we
launched
you know we had brands knocking on our
door asking to be you know
create podcasts and create shows and
it's been really interesting because
oftentimes i get asked all the time like
you know is it a saturated community
like are there a lot of podcasts out
there
and i always say well let's compare it
to other forms of content there's 600
plus million blogs
there's 30 million youtube channels
there's 1.5 billion websites
when we're looking at podcasting there's
only one million podcasts and only 20
of those podcasts are active so really
there's only 200
000 active podcasts so i always say
brands and indie
podcasters who are in the space today
are definitely ahead of the hype curve
and
very similar to how in the 1980s
companies had a phone number for their
business and then they had a website and
then they had social media
similar to that i think that in the next
five to ten years every company and
every person will either
have a podcast or be advertising on one
fascinating okay two questions that i
have to know the answer to that
that are now jumping in first of all why
is it difficult for brands to create
podcasts you know what why does a brand
like
a gap need to come to an agency and say
hey can you please help me
and create this thing with high quality
that's the first question the second
question is
what are some tangible things that you
know any the average you know student
like myself that
wants to start a podcast what are some
critical things that i need to take in
mind
whether it's the technology the the
reaching out to people
the the sharing of the content so so
those two things i'm just completely
fascinated by right now yeah
for sure so i would say with brands it's
definitely not that hard to create a
podcast i think any brand can do it
but if you're looking for a high
production high quality show that
matches the value of your brand
then definitely you can't necessarily
you have to have a lot of different
layers and
layers of a show so you need someone
who's good at pre-production you need
someone who's good at content
the technical side which is the sound
engineering the editing the recording
then there's the distribution then
there's the marketing so there's just in
guest sourcing there's just so many
different layers to creating a really
good show
it's going to be very hard for you to
find that in one higher or two highers
so that is why i think oftentimes if
you're on a low budget and you're an
indie podcaster for sure or hire a
freelancer to help you
but if you're a brand oftentimes if
you're looking for a high quality
production you're going to need a team
around you
so that are generally associated with
like an indie podcast so let's say a
friend of mine wants to start a podcast
what what are like you know thinking
strategically
what are the associated costs for that
well so i would say for an
indie podcast like if you are starting
one right now like for university the
things to consider
is recording platforms i never recommend
that people use zoom because zoom is a
conference line not a podcast audio
platform
i know we're using it right now and i'm
totally turning a blind eye to it but
for example
a platform like zencaster which is you
know i think it's free during covid
otherwise it's 20
a month it is optimized for sound
quality so it is actually devised
for people who are podcasting and so the
sound quality is
much higher um so that is you know my
first tip
as an indie podcaster if you're
recording yourself and you don't have
budget to spend
record on a platform like zencaster or
clean
feed don't use platforms like anchor
your phone
or skype or zoom because it's
interesting the audio is usually
very low and it like retention rate
would be low
i have to ask though because the way
that i was approaching this program as
well as you know i'm seeing you you're
seeing me
the next the person who's going to view
this show especially on our facebook
page
they're going to have the ability to
sort to to see us interact on video and
it's almost like watching a tv show
now this podcast that we're recording is
also going to be on spotify and apple
podcasts but
but i'm seeing the value of the video
here
that in 2020 is something that is is
increasingly important because
you know while i imagine that audiobooks
have been around for a pretty long time
and i've
considered podcasts around for a long
time i know my friends and i we're
looking for the video content that we
can see through our phone and through
our touch screens
so do you see that as being an upcoming
medium or do you still think that the
the audio part of it is still the most
crucial piece
yeah so actually most of our clients i
would say would like a video component
because they have youtube channels that
they upload their content on and so
typically what we do is we record on
zencaster and we have
zoom on mute in the background so you're
still getting the video
but your audio quality is much higher so
we actually do
uh do a lot of video podcasts as well
the other thing i'm writing this down
for you for the next episode
the other thing i would also so yeah
just use zoom as like your video
component and then just use zencaster as
the audio
the other thing i would say is then
casper is coming out with a video
component by the end of the summer i'm
actually on the waitlist for it
so it's going to be a what to all-in-one
component because they recognize that
people do
really want the video and i agree it's
better engagement we're getting to know
each other in a very organic way and
it's hard to bring that to life as much
as quickly in an audio
consumption format okay so if so fatima
i have to ask because
you know this is the second part of the
conversation that i was very excited
about this whole notion of of raising
capital
how covet has impacted uh you know the
diversity of
founders whether it's you know the
gender or whether it's a
of of color or of race talk to me a
little bit about your insights
in regarding to to this scene what has
what has happened before covet in terms
of
you know the entrepreneurship scene and
then how how has this been accelerated
through kobe
so two things on that i would say for
starters i think kovit has had a very
uneven effect on women because for the
most part
a lot of women are on the front line in
the service industries right in like the
heart of the pandemic
and secondly you know i think the brunt
of unpaid work falls on
the majority of women whether that's
household chores you know taking care of
your children taking care of the elderly
which is in itself so difficult when
services are closed schools and daycares
are shut
so i would say if you're a female
entrepreneur i can't even imagine
raising or running your company and not
only having to reimagine your products
and services in the immediate short term
and pivot
during this pandemic but also taking
care of your children full time which in
itself is a full-time job
so that would be my first thing i would
say that
the pre-existing barriers that female
founders face before
the pandemic are further compounded with
things like access to finance
access to mentors and networks and
gendered priorities the second thing i
would say
is in reality there is no pipeline
problem when it comes to raising capital
there are
a ton of female founders and in fact i
was reading
a an article by business insider and
they said that
black female founders specifically are
the fastest growing population of
entrepreneurs so investors that are
claiming that
um they they're not enough minority
female founders to invest in are clearly
not looking hard enough
and i think the clog in the pipeline is
basically
resulting in founders like myself
or founders of color aren't just female
founders in general
not falling into the investor's
preconceived notion
of what a successful entrepreneur
constitutes of and what they should look
like
resulting in two things either they
become a part of some diversity quota in
some minimal charity fund
or we lose the opportunity to somebody
who looks more the part and so
myself included you know we i was in the
process of closing out my seed round
right before the pandemic right up to
term sheets and
because of the pandemic a lot of
investors had to pull out and actually
ended up being really good for us
because we quadrupled our revenue and
now don't need investment but we had to
get really creative in the short term
to bootstrap our services so that we
could stay afloat and
you know i think a lot of founders in my
position who are women are now
looking at ways to run their companies
without acquiring outside
capital wow and is this different than
than founders that are that are male and
perhaps
you know part of the not that are not in
the minority race is that specifically
to
the group that you're referring to that
you're seeing this behavior yeah i would
definitely agree i mean i would say that
the
stats speak for themselves like the
average deal size for men last year was
12 million and the average deal size for
women
was 5 million so if you look at the
average deal size it's men have
more than double but like the numbers
aren't correlating with the amount of
female entrepreneurs in the industry
and i understand right like everyone has
their personal and
conscious and unconscious biases you
essentially want to invest in people
that look more like you and at the top
level of investments it's mostly white
males and so
you know i think part of the problem is
that investing companies angels and vcs
need to start
making sure that their partners map that
of the general demographic and if they
don't then they need to put in selection
blinds to remove their biases
um but yeah i mean in the meantime i
think definitely women are going to have
a really tough time
bouncing back from this from this
experience that we're going through
wow well well i'm definitely going to
remain optimistic and
hopefully hopefully it's not as dire but
but but but it sounds incredible that
you know you you were
about to close the seed round after the
term sheets covet hits and now you've
rejuvenated your revenues and
not just the fact that your valuation is
probably much higher than it was
but now you but now you're saying that
you're already that you're profitable
and you don't need to raise the next
investment
talk to me a little bit about this
national speakers bureau why why
speaking why public speaking why getting
on stages and sharing
sharing information and sharing stories
why do you do that
you know i i was approached by bnn
bloomberg bloomberg to start doing um
like segments and contribution columns
on topics that were really
extremely important to me and actually
diversity and inclusion is like one of
the main topics that i talk about
especially within the tech sector um
and so you know i've just always been
really passionate about moving the dial
like moving to north america and itself
was moving the dial for me because
i grew up in a very you know middle
eastern culture which is very different
from what i've experienced here
and so i really wanted to share not only
my experience but how we can continue
moving forward from
a diversity and inclusive efforts and
what companies
need to be support doing to support
entrepreneurs and so
i would say that's more my area of
expertise um along with tech and media
trends for sure but
i really enjoy public speaking i mean
obviously things have been put on a halt
right now with conferences and events
being on hold but
i've always really enjoyed you know
speaking to people really sharing
a lot of insights and it's more so 360
so then feedback has always been very
mutual
and you know i would say public speaking
is definitely not for everyone but i've
just been one of the lucky i think i'm
an
extrovert so it's worked really well for
me but
you know it's it's just one of those
tactics that i chose to build my
personal brand and it worked really well
for me
i love well first of all i want to thank
you again for being so generous with
your time it's been
really inspiring to hear both about your
insights about the you know the tech
ecosystem and and
the fine and financial side of it and
the raising capital but also on the
podcasting side and i definitely took
some notes for myself
and how to improve for the next 200
episodes of the series
and but before we believe i have to put
you on the spot one time and ask you a
personal question
and i'd love to know three words that
you would use to describe yourself
or that any of your colleagues would use
to describe you or anybody listening to
you
on stage how would they describe you
yeah so
you know a good and bad i i want to try
to be as objective as possible
i would say i am definitely
i have a lot of hustle i think it's kind
of like the dna of all entrepreneurs
and we know it's 95 perspiration and
five percent inspiration so definitely
hustle
is something that i would say a little
bit insane
crazy or insane would definitely be a
word that i would use to describe myself
um it's a combination of just like you
know having a
very like crystallized dream and focus
in life and just working tirelessly
towards it and so
sometimes i think that that can
translate into a type of intensity that
maybe doesn't resonate with everyone and
i'm okay with that
and i would say um
i you know
the third one is oh my goodness i'm like
it's so hard to narrow down the third
one i hate like
talking about myself in that way but
that's why it's the hardest question
yeah it is a really hard question you've
got me there you've stumped me
um i would probably say the last one
would be um
resilience yeah i would say that i'm
just somebody that like because
i don't know if it's because i've been
in sales or where i've come from but
just like keep getting knocked down keep
getting back up
so i don't take no for an answer don't
ask don't get policy
so yeah i would say hustle resilience
and
a little bit of crazy which i think i
love and actually you know one of
one of the main things that a lot of vcs
on this show have been
telling me is that one of the one of the
skills they consider uh
most important as you're starting your
entrepreneurial career is actually to do
sales and to understand
what it's like to get rejected ten times
to only get one
and and getting back up and being able
to deliver a message clearly and
concisely so that it also
impacts the other person and not just
yourself and with this note i i need to
send you off to your next meeting
because
but thank you very very much for the
time this was fantastic and
and i'll definitely get back to you on
this on the new technologies that i'm
going to use i already wrote them down
sounds good let me know happy podcasting
michael thank you
thank you very much take care bye